We've now invited brother and sister Ortiz from New Britain, Connecticut to visit our studio.
Brother Ortiz serves as an elder and as a regular pioneer.
He's had many additional privileges of service over the years, and Lynette has been
regular pioneering for over six years.
However, the reason we wanted to talk with them is that thus far,
they have successfully countered Satan's attacks on their family.
We'd like to hear how they accomplished this.
First of all, Freddie, tell us a little bit about your family.
You know, Lynette and I were raising the truth.
However, we met and we felt in love.
At that time, marriage was not for me.
So we started a romantic relationship for two years before we started attending to the first
meeting at the Kingdom Hall. So now after we started starting the Bible, we took two
studies per week and we knew that this is what the truth.
But also, we learned that Jehovah held Jehovah's Seas in Marari.
So we needed to do some changes.
Lynette's parents won her to continue with her education.
So we needed to change our behavior.
So two years after, we did change the changes.
Number one, because we didn't love Jehovah.
And the two, because we loved what we were learning, it was worth it.
To follow the Bible principles.
So two years later, we got married and we got baptized and then we got married.
Very good.
So Lynette, you were raised without an knowledge of Jehovah God.
What changes did you both have to make to ensure your own family would have a
fine foundation and be successful?
Well, prior to our baptism, Freddie had a serious drinking problem.
And based on the way we were raised, there was a lot of jealousy going on.
And I would say, like of confidence and trust in each other.
My Bible teachers, thankfully, suggested us to study the book,
making your family life happy.
And we ended up studying that book twice.
The publication and the Bible principles in it became the foundation of our wonderful marriage
and the happy family we enjoyed today.
Very nice.
So Freddie, maybe you can tell us about your children and what they're doing with their lives now.
We have two sons, Gabriel.
He's the oldest one.
He started regular pioneer where he was 14 years old.
At 18, he was appointed as ministerial servant.
22 years old, he's been working at the plumbing department at the Warwick construction
for more than two years.
Adrian, he's now 18 years old.
And he also started regular pioneer when he was 14.
Currently, he handled the account for the congregation and other privities as well.
Well, they both have had an early start in their theocratic careers that's commendable.
I'm sure you're both proud of them.
And we're confident that Jehovah, the one to whom every family owes its name,
is pleased that they're giving an answer to his taunter.
In addition to the family lifebook, what else contributed to the success your family has experienced?
Lynette.
The governing body has provided with so many publications with directions for families,
of course, always in Jehovah's word.
So we decided early on that whenever a question or an issue came up,
we will not make any decision based on impulse.
Instead, we will research it in the publications.
We pray to Jehovah for him to give us wisdom and we even pray for him to guide us to find
the right time to talk to each other or to counsel the boys.
I have always heard that there were stages on the shelf life and personality development.
So I research it in advance as to what to expect.
In that way, we were not surprised when we saw changes in attitudes or ideas.
And that helped us realize what needed to be addressed or corrected,
as opposed to what was normal for that stage in the boys' life.
Very practical.
Freddie, what can you add?
Over the years, I have learned how essential it is to become a good listener,
also understanding.
I tell my family how much I love them every day because we never know
when circumstances by change.
Family worship is very important for us.
I know it's easy to put off.
But the benefits are hard to meet.
Well, before this arrangement started,
as a family, we value the Bible study with a family.
I learned that a fetus is six months.
He can recognize family's voice.
So I started a Bible study with my son when they were still under womb.
And continue to do so after that.
I know that secular work and other activities can block
to the regular program, but we need to find that tendency.
And we want to succeed in family worship.
Very good.
Well, it seems your efforts paid off when we consider how
well your family's done spiritually.
In the close relationship you have with each other.
Now, in that, it sounds as if the family is perfect.
No challenges.
Is that the case?
No, not at all.
First Corinthians 1013 says that Christians will face challenges that are common to them.
And we have faced the normal challenges that comes with race in a family.
The same verse indicates that if we do things Jehovah's way,
we may increase the opportunity for him to make the way out for us.
One unexpected challenge that has changed our family dynamics over the years now
was when Freddie was diagnosed with cancer in 2012.
The treatment was aggressive and took its toll on his health.
Our whole lifestyle changed.
We had to move out from our house to an apartment.
We gave away our dogs' bike and we had to wash our expenses really closely to keep going.
This could have put a lot of strain in our family and our marriage and in spirituality.
But again, by praying to Jehovah constantly and applying by both principles,
I can say my marriage and my family has never been better.
Spiritually, we kept our routine and we all stay in full-time service throughout the ordeal.
The boys have cooperated very well.
They have offered to work to give us money.
But we prefer for them to keep focused in the kingdom because we are confident that Jehovah
will add on to the things we need.
Freddie has been a great example for all of us because he pushes himself
to keep his spirit to our routine.
You never see him complaining or in a bad mood.
And that has been very inspiring for the rest of the family.
It's quite a story.
You folks will certainly relate to the convention drama video that was advertised on our April program.
Freddie, we're very sorry to hear about your physical condition.
Are there any favorite scriptures that you've used to help keep you going,
spiritually and stay strong?
There are many of them, just to mention a few.
Philippians chapter 4, 6 and 7 have been my life since 2012.
I have to pray to Jehovah constantly so he can give me the strength that I need
to overcome my health.
And also, Philippine says that he will give us peace of mind.
In addition, he will safeguard our heart and that's something I've been seeing from Jehovah.
Also, Isaiah 41, 10, stay that does not be anxious for I am your God.
Those words give me confidence that he will keep on helping us in these circumstances,
of these different circumstances in our life.
I do understand them.
I have a lot of responsibility in the household.
So I had to rewrite Proverbs 31 verse 10 to 31 and the way they describe all the responsibility.
A good wife might have to shoulder for the family.
So brother Maurice, she's been Proverbs 31 wife.
A good wife for sure.
Obviously, showing how much you love and respect each other, that's commendable.
And you're focused on being the best parents you could be.
He's a good example for parents viewing the program at this time.
This will come as a surprise to you.
But we'd like to invite your two sons out to see what they remember from growing up in the family.
We have Gabriel and Adrian with us.
Mom's getting a little teary eyes.
I understand.
It was a surprise to see.
So Gabriel, since you're the oldest,
we'll start with you.
What do you remember about your family life?
First in Puerto Rico and later here in the United States.
I remember faithfully going to all the meetings and going out on service every Saturday.
That was just the routine.
In Puerto Rico, my dad had to work a lot though.
And like he said before, that's easy to get in the way of a good family worship routine.
But I can honestly say, once we made that transition and moving over here,
that helped us to have a good family worship routine.
And it has helped us to get closer and closer each day.
And now Adrian, anything you can add about the home life?
Yeah, my mom and dad have always shown a great love for Jehovah,
but also for each other.
So as kids, you could just sense that.
So love and respect is what we've always known.
Even now that my brother and I are older,
we have a great bond with each other.
We love each other and we could tell each other everything about our lives.
And as due to that love and respect that they have shown.
And even if there are disagreements,
which there's always going to be disagreements because it's an imperfect family,
but that love is always there to bridge those differences.
I also like to add something that helped me a lot was a routine that my dad and I had.
Right before I'm going to school,
we would always read the daily texts and he would always say behave.
And remember that Jehovah loves you.
And I don't think he knows how much that really helped me go through every day challenges at school.
That's priceless.
Now, very nice observation.
I'm interested in understanding what prompted you to regular pioneer when you're only 14 years old.
It was at a point where my dad lost his job.
Rather than stressing about it, worrying about it,
he looked at things with a spiritual perspective.
So he started to pioneer.
And since our schedules match perfectly,
I was his little pioneer buddy.
I would go out on service with him whenever he needed it.
And I feel like if the spiritual families focus on spiritual matters,
it helps them to come closer.
And I can't imagine how our relationship and respect for one another can be any
better than what it is now.
Very nice.
Adrian, you began pioneering when you were 14 as well.
How do you think that affected you as a person?
Well, first of all, the reason why I started pioneering
was because I was going out in service with the rest of my family.
And since they were already pioneering, I was getting the time in.
But I do think that taking on the responsibility of getting
at least 70 hours a month in the service does make you think differently
and 14 than it would have otherwise.
I think it has helped me mature spiritually,
and it has contributed to me being used in my full potential in congregation.
And honestly, I wouldn't trade it for anything.
Well, maybe going to Bethel.
I gave you back to you.
Tell us what was it like when you learned that your dad had a serious health problem
and would not be able to provide for the family like he used to?
It was probably one of the biggest challenges I have ever faced.
When my dad got diagnosed with cancer, it was about the same time
that I got my call to Bethel.
And I was torn, I was divided.
I felt like if I was to go to Bethel now, it would be selfish of me to leave my family
at a time like that.
But my family always had a spiritual view on things.
Insighting scriptures like Matthew 633 constantly
helped me to see if as a whole, as a family.
We put Kingdom interest first that Jehovah was going to provide
because he's a loving father and friend.
And then my dad lost his job.
And again, all these feelings came up.
But my family was adamant that let me know that the congregation had been taking care of them
for months now.
And then doing some simplifying on their own helped them as well.
And I didn't have to worry about anything.
I do know that there's a scripture that says that we got to take care of our own.
So I do anything I can to help my family back home.
The only thing I hope is that I can have a good faith like they've shown
through these difficult times.
Well, thank all of you for joining us.
I think all of us are feeling that emotion and feel very close to you for sharing that.
Now, as a father, I can appreciate all that Freddy's trying to do is
head of the family.
And on that, your support beyond normal is very much to be commended.
And we can tell your family is thriving spiritually and
we pray Jehovah continue to bless your efforts.
Come with me.
And we thank you, Gabriel and Adrian, for your surprise to the studio.
Thank you very much for taking the time to be
interviewed.
Thank you for the food.
Thank you.